Added a FAQ section for Kiali Performance and scalability (#796)
kiali/kiali.io: content/en/docs/FAQ/performance.md

---
title: "Performance and Scalability"
description: "Questions about Kiali Performance measurements and improvements."
---

> ### What performance and scalability measurements were done?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What performance and scalability measurements are done?
```

> Performance tests were conducted on setups with **10**, **50**, **200**, **300**, **500**, and **800** namespaces. Each namespace contained:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance tests are conducted on setups with **10**, **50**, **200**, **300**, **500**, and **800** namespaces. Each namespace contains:
```

- 1 Service
- 2 Workloads
- 2 Istio configurations

### What improvements have been made to Kiali's performance in recent versions?

> The performance data was collected using automated performance tests on various setups, ensuring a comprehensive evaluation of improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance data is collected using automated performance tests on various setups, ensuring a comprehensive evaluation of improvements.
```

Since the release of Kiali v1.79, significant performance enhancements have been implemented, resulting in up to a **5x improvement** in page load times. 
The performance improvements were achieved by reducing the number of requests made from the Kiali UI to the services. Instead of multiple requests, the process was streamlined to unify these into a single request per cluster.

> The enhanced performance significantly reduces the time users spend waiting for pages to load, leading to a more efficient and smooth user experience.

Reviewer: I think this maybe should be in table format, with a bit more detail around the specific page/action, the perf increase, and the version.  This would make it easier to identify improvements for the reader, and add changes for the maintainers.

Author: good suggestion, have added a matrix

### What are the implications of these performance improvements?

These improvements make Kiali more responsive and efficient, particularly in environments with a large number of namespaces, services, and workloads, enhancing usability and productivity.

For a graphical representation of the performance measurements for the Overview page load times, refer to the chart below:

> ![Kiali Overview Page](/images/documentation/faq/performance/kiali-perf-overview-load-time.png)

Reviewer: I would remove this FAQ entry and merge the information into the entry above.  A FAQ entry really shouldn't depend on the FAQ entry above it and this information is specific to the actual improvement mentioned above.  A reader will want to come here and be able to say, "OK, if I update to Kiali version xxx, I should see better performance on page yyy".

---
title: "Performance and Scalability"
description: "Questions about Kiali Performance measurements and improvements."
---

### What performance and scalability measurements are done?

Performance tests are conducted on setups with **10**, **50**, **200**, **300**, **500**, and **800** namespaces. Each namespace contains:

- 1 Service
- 2 Workloads
- 2 Istio configurations

### What improvements have been made to Kiali's performance in recent versions?

Performance data is collected using automated performance tests on various setups, ensuring a comprehensive evaluation of improvements.
Since the release of Kiali v1.80, significant performance enhancements have been implemented, resulting in up to a **5x improvement** in page load times. 
The performance improvements were achieved by reducing the number of requests made from the Kiali UI to the services. Instead of multiple requests, the process was streamlined to unify these into a single request per cluster.
The enhanced performance significantly reduces the time users spend waiting for pages to load, leading to a more efficient and smooth user experience.

> **Performance Improvements Matrix Per Kiali Version And Section**

Reviewer: I like the table much more.   Do we have the ability to add a column showing %improvements?  It's not required, this qualitative approach still indicates where the improvements can be found.

Author: do you mean to remove the 'improvements' column? or to add a measurements and performance difference in 'improvements' column?

| <div style="width:100px">Kiali</div> | <div style="width:300px">Section</div> | Improvements                      |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------  |
| 1.80                                 | Graph Page                             | Validations                       |
| 1.81                                 | Overview Page                          | mTLS, Metrics, Health             |
| 1.82                                 | Applications List                      | Overall loading                   |
| 1.83                                 | Workloads List, Services List          | Overall loading                   |

<br />

These improvements make Kiali more responsive and efficient, particularly in environments with a large number of namespaces, services, and workloads, enhancing usability and productivity.

For a graphical representation of the performance measurements for the Overview page load times, refer to the chart below:

> ![Kiali Overview Page](/images/documentation/faq/performance/kiali-perf-overview-load-time.png)

Reviewer: You may want to indicate from which version this was generated. Although from the chart it seems like 1.81 (or later).  It would have been nice to see another line for the previous, pre-enhancement, timing.

Author: good idea, thanks
